


OOP2
#The attr_accessor method creates both getter, setter methods and their instance variables.
#Ruby enables you to create class constants. These constants do not belong to a concrete object. They belong to the class. By convention, constants are written in uppercase letters.

#We access the PI constant using the :: operator.
#In Ruby there is only a slight distinction between an operator and a method.

#Ruby methods can be divided into class methods and instance methods. 
#Class methods are called on a class. 
#They cannot be called on an instance of a class.
#Class methods cannot access instance variables.

#Methods that start with a self keyword are class methods

#In general, polymorphism is the ability to appear in different forms. 
#Technically, it is the ability to redefine methods for derived classes. 
#Polymorphism is concerned with the application of specific implementations to an interface or a more generic base class.

#In dynamically typed languages we concentrate on the fact that methods with the same name do different things.

#Modules:Modules are similar to classes with a few differences. Modules cannot have instances and cannot subclasses.
#Modules are used to group related classes, methods and constants can be put into separate modules. 
#This also prevents name clashes, because modules encapsulate the objects they contain. 
#In this regard, Ruby modules are similar to C# namespaces and Java packages.

#include Math
#puts PI
#puts sin 2
#If we include a module in our script, we can refer to the Math objects directly, omitting the Math name. 
#Modules are added to a script using the include keyword.

In a single script, we cannot define two animal classes. They would clash. Putting them in different modules we solve the issue.

#Exceptions
Exceptions are objects that signal deviations from the normal flow of program execution. Exceptions are raised, thrown or initiated.

Exceptions are objects. They are descendants of a built-in Exception class. Exception objects carry information about the exception. 
Its type (the exception’s class name), an optional descriptive string, and optional traceback information. 
Programs may subclass Exception, or more often StandardError, to obtain custom Exception objects that provide additional information about operational anomalies.

Code Example:
#!/usr/bin/ruby

x = 35
y = 0

begin
    z = x / y
    puts z
rescue => e
    puts e
    p e
end


---------------------------------
Class Discussion & Such

Chris & Zarni on Self: Lecture Video 2, Week 2

In the session, you set up

def update_info (name)
      self.name = name
end

Tim (or Terry) and I asked whether we could use @ instead of self and you said yes.
And then, you mentioned that accessing the instance variable directly is not sanitized.
You were saying we should use self.name over @name in this update_info method.
It is because self.name will call on def name setter which we set up with attr_accessor.

Correct me if I am wrong!

Thanks a lot.
Have a great day,
Zarni





---------------------------------

Topics for Week 2 Blog
1. Abstraction
2. Encapsulation
3. Inheritence
4. Polymorphism


---------------------------------
Name Spacing & Such

Resolve to Keep Learning
One of the main purposes of modules is to separate methods and constants into named spaces. This is called (conveniently enough) namespacing, and it's how Ruby doesn't confuse Math::PI and Circle::PI.

See that double colon we just used? That's called the scope resolution operator, which is a fancy way of saying it tells Ruby where you're looking for a specific bit of code. If we say Math::PI, Ruby knows to look inside the Math module to get that PI, not any other PI (such as the one we created in Circle).

---------------------------------
#Static Type Vs Dynamic Type
A language is statically typed if the type of a variable is known at compile time. This in practice means that you as the programmer must specify what type each variable is. Example: Java, C, C++

The main advantage here is that all kinds of checking can be done by the compiler, and therefore a lot of stupid bugs are caught at a very early stage.

A language is dynamically typed if the type of a variable is interpreted at runtime. This means that you as a programmer can write a little quicker because you do not have to specify type everytime. Example: Perl

Most scripting languages have this feature as there is no compiler to do static typechecking anyway, but you may find yourself searching for a bug that is due to the interpreter misinterpreting the type of a variable. Luckily, scripts tend to be small so bugs have not so many places to hide.

Most dynamically typed languages do allow you to provide type information, but do not require it. One language that is currently being developed (Rascal) takes a hybrid approach allowing dynamic typing within functions but enforcing static typing for the function signature.